# Emirbayer and Sheller. 1999. "Publics in history" *Theory and Society* 28(1) 145-197.
  
1. Reclaiming civil society and public sphere
    1. Idea of the associational civil society, autonomous from
    political and economic determinisms.
    2. Networks of publicity that interact with major institutions.
    3. System of empircal research which addresses substantive issues
    surrounding democracy.
    
2. Civil society and publicity
    - Focus of CH research has traditionally been either political
      (the relatively autonomous state, administrative bureaucracy) or
      economic (capitalist relations, move from feudalism to
      capitalism). They have treated civil society as a residual category.
    - Also a "free spaces" approach that is a reaction against the
      prior approaches. However they do not find ways to interface
      with the other two spheres and they are undertheorized.
    - Civil society as existing between the state and economy, having
      four organizing principles: (1) plurality; (2) publicity; (3)
      privacy; and (4) legality.
    - Concept allows researchers to explore variable automony of
      actors within civil society vis-a-vis the economy and the
      state; also allows the elaboration of cross-national comparisons.
    - Understanding of publics as "open-ended flows of communication
      that enable socially distant interlocutors to bridge social
      network positions, formulate collective orientations, and
      generate psychical 'working alliances' in pursuit of influence
      over issues of common concern." (p. 156)
    - Three types of publicity - (1) taking into account power
      differentials; (2) time-space distanciation; (3) publics that
      interface with political and economic structures, as well as
      reflexively consider themselves.
      
3. Challenges for future research
    - Social action as shaped by a plurality of relational
      environments: social-structural (networks), cultural, and
      social-psychological (emotions and psychic aspects) 
        - "Working alliances" as "constellation of social actors held
          together by a common commitment to constructive engagement
          and solving problems"
    - Micro-dynamics of publicity - agency as "engagement by actors of
      different structural contexts, which... both reproduces and
      transforms those structures in interactive response to the
      problems posed by changing historical situations" (Emirbayer and
      Mische 1998)
        - Agency as pragmatic, oriented towards problem-solving. Three
        "tones" of agency:
            - *Iteration* - periodical, cyclic activities that help
            sustain identities, interactions, and activites over time.
            - *Projective* - new forms that are oriented in response to
            actors' fears, hopes, and desires for the future.
            - *Practice evaluation* - akin to rational-critical publics of
            Habermas, but also includes adjustment and adaptation 
    - Macro-dynamics of publicity - actual impact of publics
        - Suggestion here for empirical program is to focus on
          sequences of events and turning points.








